Hi and welcome to my introduction to the compositing notes in Cycle Splendor.
And this is as I said just an introduction so I will go through the basic very briefly
so you know what the compositing can do and then I will have new and other sessions that
we go into the depth of each thing that we can manage in the compositing.
But this is just an overview and we could go right into it.
So you start with Shader 3D View on the Node Editor and the Node Editor Editor normally
has the shader but we are going to use the compositing so we are selecting the second
one here.
And then you have three options, use nodes, backdrop and out render.
And before I go through them we will start creating another windows as well where we
select UV image editor.
Okay, use nodes, normal as in shader, when you check it it gets two default nodes here
and when it comes to compositing it's about the render layers and you have the composite.
The render layer is the input and the composite is the output and then you can of course put
a lot of nodes between them.
When thinking about the compositing it's like you have done your 3D Blender object, you
think you are finished and everything is fine then comes the compositing.
You need to do some color adjustments, you need to perhaps add two images to merge them
together, create one image of them, add some glare or whatever.
In that case you should use the compositing and the compositing is also good for things
like the camera tracking, doing visual effects and so on.
Today we are going to add three images and then merge them together using different methods.
But use nodes as we have checked here, we will add the default.
Next thing we can use is backdrop if we want that and backdrop is to get the final image
behind the nodes so we can see them and out render we do not need that this session and
that is if you do something in 3D and you do a change on that one and want that to render
again instead of going up here and select render you can just press out render and it
will take in every change that you do automatically without your need to go to render.
The setup will be as I said three images and I have written the links for those on the
text below this video so you can just click on them and these are my own image that I
did a few years ago and I have not used the compositing on that at all before this session
but that one you should download and then we have pixels, pixels is a great place where
you can get a lot of free images that you can use in several locations without any license
problems at all so that's a good site and we will have a meadow for that one and finally
I also found a good image to use as a background and all these free images are free to use
and you can use them as you want to without any problems okay so download these and then
we can start going back to a blender as I said this is the render layers and the render
layers is connected to the freedom object that you're doing and it says render layers
with an S because that you can have several layers when you do the rendering and separate
those in the render part and then merge them together in the compositing but today we're
just going to use the image so we can delete that one and select shift A and input and
select an image and if I select that image and connect it to composite and I do a render
you can see it's still black because we have not opened anything but we select opened and
I select my images in here and you select your image and I start with my bulb and now
you can see that I have the result here the bulbs and I have the image input here and
the output here okay what I now can do is of course add another image which I will do so
I will have an input an image and in this one I will put the meadow so compositing in
my case meadow and then I have that one here and if I select that is that you will get
the meadow here if you look at the result you can see that something is a little bit
strange here because here you have this part of the flower and you'd miss it here and that
is because of this image size it's much bigger than the render size and it just crops everything
away that you that is outside that range so to use this image we need to adapt the scale
for that image to be as the resulting image so there we can select shift A and distort
and in distort you find scale so we put the scale in here and change it to render size
and as soon as you change it to render size you get the complete image here then you can
select if you want to stretch the image or you want to fit it in or crop the image so
it's a little bit up to what type of image you're using if it's yeah how wide it is
and so on so you find what you like to have in the parameters here so just put distortion
and scale and you have that image okay as you could see of the result in the beginning
of this session I will try to put this meadow behind the bulbs and it will show through
the bulbs so we will see how we can do that so we connect the image again and now you
can see the image here and what we now should do is take and try to take away the white
in this and one thing that the compositing can do is key things away from an image you
have a key and the key have different settings for let's say color or for difference between
image or for something else you just need something to look on there you can see if
you can see a pattern or color that you can take away then the key will do that so if
you take the key in here and put the image into the key color or image and put that to
the image here you could see that this the bulbs here will now be alpha here you will
lose all the color so you could if you want to then just add that image into this as well
and that you will do using shift A color and alpha over alpha over will put one picture
above the other picture and if I now connect this as the picture in the bottom and I take
the other one here at the top and press convert primal premultiply then we have the meadow
behind the bulbs here then we of course need to do something to make it look a bit nicer I can
make this be a little bit bigger like this okay you can see it's very hard edge here and it's not
nice at all so what can we do we have a lot of parameters in key as you can see pre blur it's
before doing the keying we blurred image then we will have also post blur that is that we
will blur the image after we also have clipping depending on colors and we have dilute a road
which is smoothing of the edges in that amount that we put in here and as you can see it will
change when I change things here and you can see it gets smoother on on the edges by selecting post
blur like this we could also get as you can see all did that white to go away a little bit since
it's blurred away like this so you can play with these things and that part making that alpha was
because of the key color here so we used the key color white and those were very white so if I had
another color here like I don't know like this dark one then you could see that instead of all the
white then the dark colors got the alpha instead got the transparency but in our case we should use
the white so we take this little thing here and select the white and we are back to this image
instead so it's not that hard to put in something in the bulbs using the compositor then we also had
some effects it was a glowing kind of thing around this and that we can do in several steps so one
of those is to add some type of filter and in our case we will use the Sunbeam and we will
combine the Sunbeam with the result that we have here so I just put in the Sunbeam from the
original image first of all and I can change the ray length and if I disconnect this one and put in
that one you can see a little bit how it looks you will see that now you got these rays going out
from each light source and the center is where I have placed the center from where it spread is in
it's in these parameters so you have the width here so if you move that you will see that the
shade it will change so now the center is a little bit more to the right and then you have the height
here I think we could keep it on the center here it will be good and now we should connect that image
with that image that we got here so then we ask her into shift A again and select color and some
mix of that and if we take it like this then we have mixed it together but now it's one here so
we have to take that one down so let's say that we take it to 0.5 or something like that then you
can see now you see both the bulbs and this shining thing and you can see that you perhaps have to
go a little bit lower than that so just try again like this and finally you think that okay this value
is good and then you stop of course so something like this and then we also could change perhaps the
strength of the colors the balance of the colors and so on and then you just put a color balance in
so yes shift A again and color again and then you have the color balance and that normally you put
in last in the compositing and here could then change the colors to get darker or get brighter but
also to get gain some some brightness or yeah you see the values here you can change the gamma you
can change the gain you can change the lift and so on and now you get a little bit clear picture here
you can go up with the lift of colors and so on so it's a lot of changing but of course not just
darkness and so you can also change if you want to have some different colors in there so now you
have more jello since I changed the yellow color here could also be that they will go even lower on
that one to get it out and if I want to have some extra glare before yeah for this image then I can
put it in as well so just filter glare and I can decide where I want it I can say that I want it here
and then change the threshold if it's one nothing will change but if it's zero you will see that
it will be a quite different light on these so you can as normal change the value to something
that you think it's okay and then you can decide what type of glare you would like to have so you
can change it to ghost or to yeah whatever and that is just to try and see what what like what you
like in this case you can see it's getting a nice type of effect it's like almost like a fog is around
these bulbs and yeah you can just play with the values as you want to then as I said I also would
like to have some type of we said free images so I'm to have a background where we have the ocean so
how should we do that we used keying before to get the transparency or the alpha but another way
to do it is use a mask so we can mask away things here as well and we will try that so if you go to
this image and change the render image to the bulbs then we have the original image here and we change
view to mask then we can work and create the mask over the image and then we just select new to get
the name for the mask and we can just select it like I don't know sky some yeah yeah sky and now we
should build it and to build the sky just press control and the mouse click and then you can just
create a very easy and we can say we can have it on that or hide something like this and if you want
to connect that point with the first point then you just hold on alt and see and now you have a mask
to change this you can just click on the line and with control and you get a new
something here I have three of these and then you can just move them around so we can get something
and can put them out when you are doing a mask you can always try to put the points a little bit
outside of the object that you would like the mask so I will drag them out just a little bit here
and I will add another point here just hold control down and the mouse so then you get your
another point where you would like to hide it something like this and here I need one point here
I believe here and perhaps a few points here as well to be able to change things so I can go like this
when you press point and then press V like this then you get different types of modifications that you
can use so if I use like this align single I get this handle here and then I can take that handle
and I can drag it up and down and move it a little bit to get a soft corner I can do I can take another
type here if I want to so they are not connected in any way so that makes that in this way you can make it
very very good I will not do all of these things because it will take some time but you will see now
I have some type of mask here in a way that is called sky and again I'll go back to view it is still
saved even you can't see it and we can put it in here if you want to so I can now shift a input
an image appears somewhere and in that image I will put that ocean picture that we had so
compositing and I think it will do like this and then we have this one and now I have this ocean here
and I would try to put that ocean into my image of course so I then take another mix here
so color mix put them together and I can do like this you can see the render result when I am working
like this okay and then of course we need the other image as well
and now you can see it's going above each other and we do not like that so then we can take
another input and this time you can use mask and in this little face here you can select what type
of mask you want because now we created one but you can have as many as you want to and then you
put that mask into the factor to decide where you would like to mask the picture and where it
doesn't want to so now you can see now the bulbs are masked away and if it's getting like that then
it's just to invert these and you will then get the other way around of course so now you can see
as I said before I didn't do it so very very carefully but you can see now how it's done here
it looks like it's cut out and doesn't look so smooth and so on so how to change that well
that you can do by putting in a feather in here so shift A and in the let's see in the filter
you have dilate a road so select that one and put it in here and select feather and if I take
that up like this you will see now that it will shrink around everything and make a very very
nice round thing here but it is blurry and if I can go a little bit less then will be less
blur of course and that is a little bit how good you have been with the mask now if you have done
something wrong it's not that hard to change the mask again because all you have to do is go back
to the view again and select mask again and as you can see I had some really bad issues here so
then I just change that and as soon as I change it it will be affected of on here so it will you
can always see how it will look here so then you can fine tune it as much as you want until you are
satisfied with this mask so go back to view again and you can get this as I said a really good result
but you have to work a little bit with your image to make it as good as you want to the distance
could go both ways now we go up and it cuts nearer these bulbs you can also have a negative number
and then it will go the other way around so then it will take from go out instead of go
instead of going into these bulbs so that is a little bit how that works the only thing I
will show you more this time is how to check the image before it reaches the end because you have
something here that is output viewer and you can have as many viewers as you want to and if you
connect that viewer to something like I connected to the image here or whatever then I get the back
drop here to work and now when I look at my backdrop I can see everything from where I connect this
viewer and now I have it on the ocean I can add another one so shift input sorry output
output viewer and I connect that too let's see why not here like that
and then the backdrop will be from this viewer and if I now select that viewer I will be back here
so it's very easy if I want to work with a complicated node to have a lot of viewers and then
select whatever view I would like to see for the moment and to change the size of the backdrop
it's very easy yes press V to go back and then Alt V to zoom in and that is the basic and I will
as I said go through everything that is to know about the compositing also how you do all the
effects camera tracking and everything but that will take in later sessions small steps just so
learn and I hope you learned something this time as well and if you think it's interesting and would
like to see more then just subscribe and have a nice day bye